working-with-your-data: `cp` example and more info about ssh (#8)
AlexsLemonade/2020-june-training: working-with-your-data/working-with-your-own-data.md

### Upload data that is on a ssh server

> If you are retrieving your data from an [**s**ecure **sh**ell (ssh) server](https://searchsecurity.techtarget.com/definition/Secure-Shell), like one your institution or lab may host data on, we encourage you to use [the terminal command `scp`](https://linuxize.com/post/how-to-use-scp-command-to-securely-transfer-files/) to copy over your files you'd like to analyze to our server.

Reviewer: Probably don't need the ssh definition here, as you repeat it many times below...

Does remind me that we should probably specify the URLs that wget works for: `http://` `https://` and `ftp://`

(Make sure the data does not violate any of the [privacy issues described above](#things-to-know-before-uploading-your-data).)

**Step 1)** Go to the Terminal tab in your RStudio session.

![Terminal tab](screenshots/rstudio-session-terminal.png)

The `scp` command is a way to copy files securely to or from a **s**ecure **sh**ell server.

> It works similarly to the [`cp` command](https://linuxize.com/post/cp-command-in-linux/), which is just for copying files in general.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It works similarly to the [`cp` command](https://linuxize.com/post/cp-command-in-linux/), which is used for copying files that are all on the same computer.
```

```
# Navigate to your home directory in Terminal
cd ~
```

Here we will copy this notebook *from* its location in `shared-data/working-with-your-data` *to* our own `training-modules/` folder.

```
cp shared-data/working-with-your-data/retrieve-SRAdb-metadata.Rmd  training-modules/
```

Let's double check it worked by using the `ls` command.

```
ls training-modules
```

You should see `retrieve-SRAdb-metadata.Rmd` printed out in addition to the names of the other folders and files in `training-modules` folder.

Here are more [`cp` examples](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/cp-command-linux-examples/).
As with other commands, you can use `cp --help` to print out a full list of the options for `cp`.

**Step 2)** Confirm your `ssh` login credentials.
Your institution, or whomever gave you access to the server, should have given you a username and server address as well as more specific instructions on how to log on to the server.

Here's very general examples info about logging into [`ssh`](https://help.liquidweb.com/s/article/Logging-into-Your-Server-via-Secure-Shell-SSH).

*Template*
Generally an ssh login will look something like this:
```

> ssh username@server_name

Reviewer: ```suggestion
ssh username@server
```

```

Upon entering this command, it will probably ask you for a password.

Once you are logged into your server, you should try to confirm the file path for the data you are looking to copy.
If you are unsure of the file path of the data you are looking for, we recommend you use [`ls`](https://www.tecmint.com/15-basic-ls-command-examples-in-linux/) and [`find`](https://www.tecmint.com/35-practical-examples-of-linux-find-command/) commands to determine this and copy down the exact file path in your script.

**Step 3)** Set up your `scp` command.

The `scp` command works similarly to the `cp` command we practiced above, except that the `secure` part of copying from a **s**ecure **sh**ell will require us to supply the server's address and may require us to enter a password.
Just as we practiced with `cp`, the first argument is `FROM` the second argument is `TO`.

*Template:*

> Main difference with `scp` is that we will need to have the server address and a colon.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The main change with `scp` as compared to `cp` is that we will need to add the server address and a colon.
```

Whatever login information you used in the previous step is what you will need to use here.

> Then we can have the `FROM` and `TO` file paths per usual.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Then we can use the `FROM` and `TO` file paths as before.
```

Remember to get rid of all `<` and `>`'s.

```

> scp <username@from_host>:<FROM_FILE_PATH> <TO_FILE_PATH>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
scp <username@server>:<FROM_FILE_PATH> <TO_FILE_PATH>
```

### Upload data that is on a ssh server

> If you are retrieving your data from an [**s**ecure **sh**ell (ssh) server](https://searchsecurity.techtarget.com/definition/Secure-Shell), like one your institution or lab may host data on, we encourage you to use [the terminal command `scp`](https://linuxize.com/post/how-to-use-scp-command-to-securely-transfer-files/) to copy over your files you'd like to analyze to our server.

Reviewer: See my earlier comment about so many definitions of ssh... Or get rid of some of the others?
```suggestion
If you are retrieving your data from an [(ssh) server](https://searchsecurity.techtarget.com/definition/Secure-Shell), like one your institution or lab may host data on, we encourage you to use [the terminal command `scp`](https://linuxize.com/post/how-to-use-scp-command-to-securely-transfer-files/) to copy over your files you'd like to analyze to our server.
```

> scp -r <username@from_host>:<FOLDER_FROM_FILE_PATH> <FOLDER_TO_SAVE_TO>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
scp -r <username@server>:<FOLDER_FROM_FILE_PATH> <FOLDER_TO_SAVE_TO>
```

```

In either situation you will likely be prompted to enter your password.

> You can enter it interactively; it's best to not have the password written in the script.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can enter it interactively; it's best to not have the password written in a script.
```
